CodeBook.md, before:

---
title: "CodeBook for Getting and Cleaning Data Project"
author: "Mark Fischer"
date: "Created 11/15/15"
output:
  html_document:
    keep_md: yes
---

This is an R Markdown document. Markdown is a simple formatting syntax for authoring HTML, PDF, and MS Word documents. For more details on using R Markdown see <http://rmarkdown.rstudio.com>.

When you click the **Knit** button a document will be generated that includes both content as well as the output of any embedded R code chunks within the document. You can embed an R code chunk like this:

```{r}
summary(cars)
```

You can also embed plots, for example:

```{r, echo=FALSE}
plot(cars)
```

Note that the `echo = FALSE` parameter was added to the code chunk to prevent printing of the R code that generated the plot.

## Project Description
Short description of the project

##Study design and data processing

###Collection of the raw data
Description of how the data was collected.

###Notes on the original (raw) data 
Some additional notes (if avaialble, otherwise you can leave this section out).

##Creating the tidy datafile

###Guide to create the tidy data file
Description on how to create the tidy data file (1. download the data, ...)/

###Cleaning of the data
Short, high-level description of what the cleaning script does. [link to the readme document that describes the code in greater detail]()

##Description of the variables in the tiny_data.txt file
General description of the file including:
 - Dimensions of the dataset
 - Summary of the data
 - Variables present in the dataset

(you can easily use Rcode for this, just load the dataset and provide the information directly form the tidy data file)

###Variable 1 (repeat this section for all variables in the dataset)
Short description of what the variable describes.

Some information on the variable including:
 - Class of the variable
 - Unique values/levels of the variable
 - Unit of measurement (if no unit of measurement list this as well)
 - In case names follow some schema, describe how entries were constructed (for example time-body-gyroscope-z has 4 levels of descriptors. Describe these 4 levels). 

(you can easily use Rcode for this, just load the dataset and provide the information directly form the tidy data file)

####Notes on variable 1:
If available, some additional notes on the variable not covered elsewehere. If no notes are present leave this section out.

##Sources
Sources you used if any, otherise leave out.

##Annex
If you used any code in the codebook that had the echo=FALSE attribute post this here (make sure you set the results parameter to 'hide' as you do not want the results to show again)

Commit message:

update run_analysis.R to remove bodybody features from column names. Updated CodeBook.md

CodeBook.md, after:

---
title: "CodeBook for Getting and Cleaning Data Project"
author: "Mark Fischer"
date: "Created 11/15/15"
output:
  html_document:
    keep_md: yes
---

```{r, echo=FALSE}
summary(cars)
```

## Project Description
Create an initial dataset, from which a tidy data set will be created.  The creation of the initial dataset will complete the following items, not necessarily in this order:  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.  

##Study design and data processing

###Collection of the raw data
The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain. See 'features_info.txt' for more details. 

###Notes on the original (raw) data 
For each record it is provided:

- Triaxial acceleration from the accelerometer (total acceleration) and the estimated body acceleration.
- Triaxial Angular velocity from the gyroscope. 
- A 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables. 
- Its activity label. 
- An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.

##Creating the tidy datafile

###Guide to create the tidy data file
The initial dataset requires the following:


- download the zip data file from url: https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip
- place the run_analysis.R script in the same directory as the UCI HAR Dataset folder 
- A 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables. 
- Its activity label. 
- An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.

###Cleaning of the data
Short, high-level description of what the cleaning script does. [https://github.com/fischm67/getdata-034_project/blob/master/README.md]()

##Description of the variables in the tiny_data.txt file
General description of the file including:
 - Dimensions of the dataset
 - Summary of the data
 - Variables present in the dataset

(you can easily use Rcode for this, just load the dataset and provide the information directly form the tidy data file)

###Variable 1 (repeat this section for all variables in the dataset)
Short description of what the variable describes.

Some information on the variable including:
 - Class of the variable
 - Unique values/levels of the variable
 - Unit of measurement (if no unit of measurement list this as well)
 - In case names follow some schema, describe how entries were constructed (for example time-body-gyroscope-z has 4 levels of descriptors. Describe these 4 levels). 

(you can easily use Rcode for this, just load the dataset and provide the information directly form the tidy data file)

####Notes on variable 1:
If available, some additional notes on the variable not covered elsewehere. If no notes are present leave this section out.

##Sources
Sources you used if any, otherise leave out.

##Annex
If you used any code in the codebook that had the echo=FALSE attribute post this here (make sure you set the results parameter to 'hide' as you do not want the results to show again)
